ALOY

Personality
Appearance
Aloy uses the medium female model. She has pale, freckled skin; light green-brown eyes; and long, light auburn-brown hair, some of which is tied into braids.
Character Stories
Outcast, hunter of machines, Seeker, Anointed, Savior... Aloy had many identities in her original world, and she was destined on account of her genetics to be the heroine who would heal it.
Now, she has arrived in a new world, full of never-before-seen challenges, and once again, she throws herself gladly into the hunt.
Friendship Lv. 2
Aloy was born an outcast, deeply rejected and feared by her tribe. She was raised in the rugged mountains near their tribal dwellings by the experienced Hunter, Rost.
He taught her how to hunt: to have cat-like form and deadly accuracy. And yet, he could not pass the most important thing onto her — the truth of her birth. Who were her parents? Why had she been cast out?
Unfortunately, the reasons for this were known only to the very High Matriarchs of the tribe who had exiled her.
Friendship Lv. 3
There was only one way to discover the identity of Aloy's parents — victory at the Proving, the tribe's annual hunting contest, in which the victor would be free to ask for a reward.
She would train hard all her life for that event, but when the moment of trial came, the ritual would end in tragedy.
Mysterious assassins slew the participating Hunters, and it was only through Rost's sacrifice that Aloy was able to escape.
Later, Aloy would learn that she was the true target of the attack, for she had almost exactly the same face as an enigmatic, ancient woman.
Friendship Lv. 4
Aloy knew that she had to find these killers to understand her origins.
Her pursuit brought her into a wild and dangerous world far beyond her imagination, bringing strange and powerful tribes, mysterious ancient ruins, and terrifying enemies — whether human or machine — before her.
In the end, the true enemy, HADES, appeared before her. It was an artificial intelligence filled with malice, bent on cleansing the world of all life.
There was only one way to defeat HADES: investigate her link with that ancient woman, that "Aloy from the past"... Or could she have been her mother?
Friendship Lv. 5
Hot on HADES' trail, Aloy traversed a great many ruins from the distant past, and ultimately discovered her origin: she was not born of human flesh and blood but was the result of cloning.
The genetics of the woman who had saved all life 1,000 years ago had been the basis for her creation.
This had not only granted her the abilities she had possessed since birth, but had also guided her destiny, for this genetic material was the key to preventing the second coming of the apocalypse.
Armed with this knowledge, and with the help of allies from many tribes, Aloy was finally able to defeat HADES and its human and machine minions in a decisive battle in the shining city of Meridian.
Friendship Lv. 6
After defeating HADES, Aloy embarked on a new journey, pursuing ancient technologies and cleansing the land that HADES had trampled underfoot.
In her long journey, she found every Old World Ruin that there was to be found in search of the Old Ones' lost secrets.
In one ancient, dilapidated laboratory, she found something she had never seen before — a gleaming portal. As she drew close, she was enveloped by powerful energies, and she saw her own image within the portal as one looking into a mirror, feeling as if she were in two places at once.
With a flash of light, the "world" that Aloy knew completely disappeared from her sight, and she now found herself in a strange, beautiful new world just waiting to be explored.
