MIKA

Personality
Seemingly shy and distant at first, Mika eventually warms up to the people he knows. To those unfamiliar to him, especially those with high rankings, Mika prefers to observe them and understand their personalities before properly interacting with them as a sign of respect.2 He does seem to rely on other people for decisions, such as when to talk or what to say.3
Despite his young age, Mika is mature and responsible, taking care of his older brother when he comes home drunk and completes his tasks without complaining or having much issue with them. He enjoys cartography, wanting to become Mondstadt's expert cartographer and expressing a desire to map all of Teyvat. While friends with Klee, he often has to remap due to her explosives altering the landscape, though he does not mind.
Appearance
Mika uses the medium male model. He has fair skin, blue eyes, and curled golden hair that sticks out in irregular tufts and are golden brown at the tips.
Official Introduction
With a feather plume as gold as maize, uncharted borders are depicted as clear as day
Mika, who is a member of the Knights of Favonius Reconnaissance Company, always diligently fulfills all the duties that come his way.
Setting up tents, lighting fires for cooking, repairing equipment... Even Hertha, the logistics captain, has nothing but praise for Mika's excellent efficiency.
Mika's dedication to work is not due to a weak character or his inability to say no, but instead stems from the value that he attaches to teamwork, and a genuine desire to learn from his experienced colleagues.
"Helping everyone as much as possible benefits the entire team too!"
Mika's favorite pastime is closely linked to his primary duty as a front-line surveyor.
That is: surveying unexplored regions, recording topographical data, and drawing accurate and effective maps.
"There is an abundance of resources here, but it is surrounded by monsters. Take note to exercise caution."
Mika, whose dream is to become an expert cartographer, adds another annotation to the new version of the military map he is designing.
Character Stories
Whenever he shows up at the Knights of Favonius headquarters, Mika always swiftly finishes any discussions to be had with his fellow knights, then quietly slips away to avoid becoming a hindrance to others' work.
Mika always gets nervous when someone strikes up a conversation with him, frantically scampering away right after politely putting an end to the idle chatter.
The knights know that the young man's name is Mika, and that he is Huffman's younger brother and the second son of the Schmidt family. They also know that he is a member of the Reconnaissance Company, but nothing much beyond that.
Few are aware of what Mika's job entails, nor do they know that the widely-promoted, updated version of their military map is the fruit of his labors.
The new map consists of detailed statistical data regarding almost every corner of Mondstadt with practical markers indicating road conditions, areas with heightened monster activity, high ground that can serve as temporary strongholds, and the distribution of natural resources... The amount of detail could almost make your head spin.
All of this is the result of Mika's own labor throughout the two years he has spent traveling all across Mondstadt and investigating every inch of terrain he set foot on.
Knights who have fought alongside Mika know that he finds using both lance and crossbow at the same time the most convenient, and his unique fighting style has left a lasting impression.
However, they have also been solemnly "warned" by Mika to never speak of him to others unless absolutely necessary.
"Mika's terrified of drawing the attention of others — he'll get nervous if you so much as stare at him, to say nothing of showering him with compliments. He's been a great asset to the Knights and helped us out a lot, so respecting his boundaries is the least we can do as seniors!"
Friendship Lv. 2
Mika comes from a loving family. His mother works as an author writing about local conditions, his father is a retired Knight of Favonius, and his older brother Huffman is a current member in the Knights' ranks.
When Mika began learning to read, his mother went inspiration-gathering abroad with his father accompanying her. During that time, the responsibility of looking after little Mika landed in Huffman's hands.
However, Huffman had already made the Knights of Favonius his second home — he was preoccupied with work during the day and indulged in drinking with his friends night after night. With his own life lacking organization, how was he expected to take care of his little brother?
So it was little Mika who learned to take care of both himself and his brother whenever he'd return home drunk at night. When other children his age were enjoying their childhood without a care, Mika had already learned to stick to an organized schedule, sometimes even helping Huffman with his everyday chores.
While they were away, Mika's parents always made sure to send a letter back to Mondstadt every week to keep their children from worrying. Mika's mother, being an excellent writer, could somehow describe the scenery she's seen in a mesmerizing way akin to fairytales. Mika loved to read his parents' letters before looking for their exact location and marking out their travel route on a map. Picturing his parents' wonderful adventures was Mika's favorite pastime.
Before long, Mika developed a passion for reading maps, and even committed the terrain of many locations to memory.
Unfortunately, Huffman had to ruin the mood when he broke the bad news to Mika: "I'm afraid your efforts have been wasted on the map Mom and Dad left us. It's very outdated, and it wasn't very accurately drawn in the first place." But that was to be expected. After all, those who with the ability freely explore the wilderness would likely have all become adventurers with nothing but commissions and Mora on their minds. To them, just about any map would do.
On the other hand, most of those who knew how to draw decent maps were not skilled in combat, so it would be much too dangerous for them to survey the wilderness themselves. Not to mention their limited income, which wouldn't allow them to afford bodyguards. Perhaps the time would come when the Knights of Favonius finally had sufficient budget to hire experts to deal with matters like these, but with Mondstadt as peaceful as one could hope for, no one knew for sure when something as trivial as cartography could be put on the schedule. So little Mika thought to himself: If he could reach every corner of the world just like his parents, and record every detail of the terrain beneath his feet... That would be the most fun ever.
From then on, Mika set a clear goal for himself.
"I'll become Mondstadt's expert cartographer."
Friendship Lv. 3
When Mika's parents returned to Mondstadt, they were delighted to hear of Mika's new-found goal and promised to do whatever they could to support him.
From that day on, Mika dedicated most of his time to poring over geography books and assiduously honing his drawing skills in the library.
Lisa took a liking to this polite, gifted yet hardworking child and often recommended books to him, guiding him towards the most efficient path.
After some time, Mika gained Lisa's recognition — "With your current skills and abilities, you just might qualify for studying at the Akademiya."
It was then that Mika began looking for opportunities to put his knowledge to the test. As it happens, Ella Musk, whom he had gotten acquainted with while studying at the library, happened to be looking for a guide for a language exchange trip to the secluded wilderness.
And that became Mika's first real expedition. Though they did safely arrive at their destination, due to an error in Ella Musk's word choice, the pair ended up getting beaten by the hilichurls.
Mika concluded that this setback was due to his lack of combat prowess. "I need to learn how to protect myself," he thought, "or I won't be able to guarantee the success of my expeditions to unfamiliar areas."
Thereafter, Mika rode the momentum from his time spent learning in the library and began to learn fighting techniques from his brother. Luckily, Mika had a strong constitution and quickly grasped the basics.
It happened that the Knights of Favonius had just drafted their plan for an expedition set to depart three years later. They were still looking to recruit a few more members to fill some positions, and "Front-Line Surveyor" was among the open spots.
This role had strict prerequisites: those applying for the position should have some level of expertise in cartography, and due to potentially dangerous conditions, they would be leading the team from the front lines, making combat skills a must.
This was Mika's chance, but it all felt too much like a dream...
Mika initially believed that he would be invited into the team as an external consultant, but the position of Front-Line Surveyor would no doubt make him a full-fledged member of the expedition — and one crucial to the entire team. He was daunted by the thought at first, afraid that he wasn't worthy of such an important role that according to him, "only the strongest would qualify for."
His doubts were soon dispelled by his father and brother's encouragement, and he remembers their words to this day:
"You don't have to ask too much of yourself. Doing your best to help will be more than enough."
"Most of the knights are just ordinary people like us, but once we put our strengths together as a team, even the strongest of adventurers would struggle to prove our equal."
Thus, Mika seized the opportunity and signed up for the position.
He felt reassured that he would, at least, be dedicating his time to what he loved.
Friendship Lv. 4
Word of Mika signing up for the expedition spread like wildfire throughout the Knights of Favonius.
"Huffman's little brother will be joining us! The little kid who always takes care of that drunkard will be joining the Knights!"
The anxiety from unexpectedly becoming the center of attention made his breaths quicken as his heart pounded — Mika was afraid of failing the Knights' assessment and disgracing his father, ruining his brother's career, or worse, ruining the reputation of his family name.
Considering that many members of the Schmidt family had already joined their ranks, the Knights of Favonius decided to raise the bar for entry and make the whole assessment process public in order to make the selection as fair as possible.
Taking real-life scenarios into consideration, lead examiner Kaeya came up with a series of challenges that strictly assessed the participants' abilities:
Hiking up Dragonspine while wearing full armor and carrying a heavy load;
Mapping out a monster-infested region without the aid of any reference material...
Luckily, Mika came well-prepared and gave it his all, eventually passing the most difficult challenge and becoming one of three successful candidates.
The other two candidates had both received Mika's aid along the way as well — to him, they were more like future teammates than competitors, in any case.
Mika's excellent exhibition of teamwork gained the recognition of Grand Master Varka, who allocated the two other new recruits to the Cavalry Company and Investigation Team, while personally taking Mika in to go with him on his expedition.
Every week, Varka would teach Mika combat techniques and give him assorted "homework" to complete.
Mika would later join the Reconnaissance Company. Communicating with its rather unusual Captain further strengthened his communication skills, which would help him greatly when working with the elite knights of the expedition team.
After joining the Knights, Mika honed his cartography skills while investigating dangerous locations as a Front-Line Surveyor while receiving pointers on how he might improve his other skills from Varka.
The diligent young recruit quickly became a calm and reliable knight — though it seems as though he has yet to realize that himself.
Friendship Lv. 5
As Mika continuously refined his skills in real-life combat, he became a core member of the Reconnaissance Company in less than two years, completing countless missions alongside his teammates.
The scheduled date drew near, and the expedition team was soon about to depart.
At the send-off party, Grand Master Varka was pleasantly surprised by the shiny new Vision on Mika's right wrist. But after personally inviting Mika to spar, he concluded that Mika's current abilities were "remarkable, but far from enough."
Mika didn't figure out what that meant until the expedition team entered a dangerous restricted area, where he finally saw with his own eyes the monsters Grand Master Varka had used as a reference when judging his powers.
Those unnamable, wandering creatures could become a nightmare for any knight unfortunate enough to stray away from the team.
The speed of their scouts in the vanguard determined how fast the whole expedition team proceeded, so during the days when the team was the busiest, Mika could only rest for half an hour a day.
It was Mika's first time working under such high pressure, and he did so with great difficulty. Not to mention that apart from dangers of the unknown, the expedition team was under the watchful gaze of another party...
One day, when Mika was getting ready to call it a night, he received a warning from another scout that the Knights had encountered enemies.
When Mika hurried on scene, Varka had already drawn up battle lines with his trusty subordinates.
In the depths of the pitch-dark night, Mika could vaguely make out a line of soldiers, silently standing there as if they were lifeless war machines.
And right in the middle of the enemy formation was a dark, distinct silhouette. Even though torches lit the area, Mika could see nothing but their eerily dark blue eyes that seemed to glow with an uncanny aura.
At his teammate's reminder, Mika learned of their identity — the Fatui Harbinger known as "The Captain" and his direct, elite subordinates.
As it turned out, their vanguard had bumped into Fatui scouts and an altercation had ensued, resulting in both sides getting jumpy and continuously requesting reinforcements, eventually alerting their respective commanders.
The scent of gunpowder was thick in the air, the sense of crisis turned Mika's limbs numb and cold.
He couldn't help visualizing the confrontation escalating into an armed conflict, and what he should do if such a thing were to happen...
The Harbinger, in particular — Mika knew that he would be utterly helpless to parry a single half-hearted swipe from this person.
His jumbled thoughts and exhaustion made it difficult to breathe or focus.
Varka, however, seemed completely unfazed. He greeted the Harbinger from afar and walked towards him with his weapon in hand. The Captain, too, signaled his men to stand by as he began slowly stepping forward.
As the tension between the two parties reached its peak, Varka and The Captain briefly conversed and seemed to reach an agreement.
The dark silhouette raised his arm, and the ghostly shadows of the Fatui soldiers silently turned and departed with him.
The Knights all heaved a sigh of relief, and some were even trembling with fear. But when Varka returned to the Knights' formation, he looked as relaxed as ever.
"Well, that was a surprise! If it weren't for our unique circumstances, I would've loved to invite him for a duel!"
"And it's not like he's a stubborn fellow. He's well aware that engaging in battle in a strange and foreign land would've been disadvantageous for both of us."
It was until then that Mika realized they had been on the precipice of war, and yet the Grand Master had been there to put a stop to the conflict.
The Captain's overpowering presence and the calmness with which Grand Master Varka handled the crisis both left a profound impression in Mika's mind.
Mika reflected on this experience for a long time and concluded that although he had been improving in strength, he still had a long way to go when it came to dealing with situations like that.
There was more to be done than just doing his best to help the team. He had to work harder to become a reliable Knight who could handle all manner of incidents...
Friendship Lv. 6
Fortunately, Mika would not run into anything exceedingly dangerous during the expedition and smoothly made it past that most difficult period.
During Mondstadt's Weinlesefest, Mika returned to Mondstadt with Grand Master Varka's letter and resumed his post in the Reconnaissance Company.
The members of the Reconnaissance Company were both excited at his return and surprised at the astonishing progress he had made — for he could now easily complete tasks that usually required three forward scouts.
And considering that the Grand Master's letter had vaguely mentioned the Fatui, and that Mika had been a key member on the expedition under Varka's direct command... His teammates quickly connected the dots and a strange chain of logic emerged:
"Mika fought against the Fatui! Mika might've fought against Fatui elites! Mika must've fought alongside the Grand Master and won a battle against a Fatui Harbinger!"
"How else could he have become this strong all of a sudden? Mika's our hero! He can now do anything for us!"
Truth be told, Mika had simply accrued a great deal of experience — the other Knights who had gone had also made progress to varying extents. They simply had yet to return, and thus no valid comparison could be made.
Mika didn't know how to deal with all the absurd rumors, and so he consulted Jean and Kaeya for advice.
Jean informed the leader of each company to remain rational and refrain from spreading rumors based purely on speculation. Besides, many matters regarding the expedition were considered highly confidential and should be treated with discretion.
Kaeya, on the other hand, seemed to enjoy joking about the rumors. Members of the Knights of Favonius all more or less held some sort of dislike for the Fatui, and a rumor that says "Mika gave the Fatui a good beating" could very well boost morale.
Whatever the case, Mika felt greatly reassured now that the Acting Grand Master had been made aware of the situation and was comforted to know that he hadn't caused any trouble for anyone.
He reported to duty as usual and made sure he did all he could to help others.
But the exaggerated rumors couldn't be un-spread, and Mika has found that gaining too much trust comes with its own fair share of difficulties...
Recently, more Knights have been coming up to him to borrow a new map, ask for help maintaining a weapon, or request a share of the Reconnaissance Company's field rations.
All of them seem to hope that some of his powers might rub off on them so that they can become stronger quickly, just like him.
Friendship Lv. 4
An intricate book-shaped device Mika carries with him wherever he goes.
It was developed by Mika and technicians from the Investigation Team, and its key components were made using Albedo's latest alchemical creations.
A notebook is embedded in the device's interior that can be used to record information. Designed to facilitate the quick production and use of maps, each of its pages can be conveniently removed and replaced.
An elaborate pattern is carved on to the back panel of the device. Channeling elemental power into the carving will activate the prism-shaped component outside said panel, which will in turn fire a "wavebeam" towards a fan-shaped target region.
The distance between the device and the target region can then be accurately calculated using the time taken for the beam to bounce back. By increasing both the frequency and amplitude of the beam, the device will generate a sketch of a small area of terrain.
This function can greatly improve the accuracy of a map, but regrettably, everything else — including the statistical information and calculations regarding the terrain in question — has to be computed in the user's mind.
Only those with excellent spatial reasoning skills and an extensive knowledge of the target terrain are capable of making full use of this function.
Thus, Mika became the only Front-Line Surveyor who could use the device without difficulty, and its overall usage rate is not very high.
There had been other improved devices originally planned for distribution to other teams, but they have been put into storage, to be used as spare parts for Mika's device.
The device is Mika's trustiest helper in his work and a symbol of honor for being the best surveyor, but Mika has never once mentioned its impressive features to others.
To Mika, that feels too much like bragging, not to mention that it could potentially give Albedo extra work... Troubling others is the last thing Mika ever wants, after all.
Friendship Lv. 6
Mika was once in a life-or-death situation.
This was not long after he joined the Reconnaissance Company — the information on a certain area was no longer valid, and Mika had taken up the task to update the details of its terrain on his own.
He slowly crept into the ruins, only to accidentally knock off a piece of stone from the broken wall, alerting two Abyss Mages lurking in the dark.
As the flames intertwined, a rush of elemental power instantly engulfed him as if it was about to crush him into pieces and turn him into the monsters' next meal.
Pain and panic flooded his senses, and only one thought remained in his consciousness — he needed to escape and warn others.
"These monsters... They'd be a threat to even the most experienced members in the company...!"
It was the responsibility of a front-line land surveyor to keep their teammates from dangerous situations like this.
The Abyss Mages shrieked in glee and were about to command other monsters to come out of hiding when a spinning spear tore the curtain of flames apart. An icy mist burst across the ruins, clearing the unbearable heat in an instant.
When the Abyss Mages finally made sense of the situation, Mika had already fled far away, though still apologizing loudly enough for the monsters to hear:
"I'm sorry! I'll remember to knock before entering next time. That way, my seniors can fight you fair and square!"
"Next time" soon came — the Reconnaissance Company's main force were notified of the monsters and swiftly but cautiously eliminated the threat.
They were surprised to find that both of the Abyss Mages' shields had already become quite badly battered, and gazing upon the radiant glow from the Vision on Mika's right wrist, they seemed to realize something...
That day, the Reconnaissance Company's dinner was especially sumptuous. Everyone raised their glass to celebrate, while Mika himself seemed to be in shock, unable to wrap his head around what was happening.
