RAZOR

Personality
Razor is a generally good-natured person who considers his wolf pack his family, and becomes enraged if they are hurt by other parties. He loves his wolf family, but dislikes the fact that he isn't fully like them, being an infant taken in by the leader of his pack, Andrius. While he barely sees any fellow humans traveling in Wolvendom due to its fearsome reputation, he considers the few humans he does encounter to be his friends and is willing to protect them from danger if it means sacrificing his and his pack's dinner for the night. Razor is also a quick thinker, as he is able to fix Klee's disasters whenever she goes to play in Wolvendom.2
Razor is honest and forthright, due to his limited exposure to human life. He is not used to speaking and only speaks in short phrases and words, finding it troublesome,3 but he continues nonetheless.
Like the rest of his wolf family, Razor enjoys eating meat and shows an aversion to most vegetables, only preferring potatoes. He gets along with Bennett well for that reason and the two typically spend most of their time talking.
Appearance
Razor uses the medium male model. He has long, spiky gray hair; bright red eyes; and pale skin. He has several scars on his body, including one on his left cheek and several on his arms, likely as a result of his time living in the wild with his wolf family.
Official Introduction
A semi-feral boy raised by wolves who hunts among the dense forests of Wolvendom.
▌Legend of Wolvendom · Razor
A semi-feral boy raised by wolves who hunts among the dense forests of Wolvendom.
========================================
Tales of a strange young boy are spreading in Mondstadt.
It is said that he prefers the company of wolves to men, and is a formidable hunter who prowls the forest. He has rarely been sighted, as he keeps his distance from other humans.
Some say he is an orphan raised by wolves. Others say he is a wolf spirit in human form...
As the rumours grow, so does the mystery surrounding this Wolf Boy.
All the while, Razor the Wolf Boy stands today on a mountaintop, basking in the warm sunlight, with his family — his "Lupical" — of wolves by his side.
Character Stories
Razor is a boy whose identity is shrouded in mystery. He lives in Wolvendom and is rarely spotted by the citizens of Mondstadt.
According to a handful of eyewitness accounts, Razor has keen senses and is highly agile, traversing the forest at breakneck speed. He is often seen in the company of his wolf pack, while generally avoiding contact with humans.
Some speculate that he was an orphan raised by the wolves, while others say he is a wolf spirit that has taken on a human form.
Such rumors only add to the mystery of the "Wolf Boy," as the denizens of Mondstadt call him.
Meanwhile, Razor the Wolf Boy stands all the while on the hilltops with his head held high, basking in the warm sunlight.
Friendship Lv. 2
Razor lives among the wolves night and day.
All of them are as close with Razor as they could possibly be. Which wolf has the loudest howl, which wolf runs the fastest, which wolf is the best at ambushing — there isn't a wolf Razor doesn't know.
He can sense the mood of the wind, smell a scent from miles away, and knows many practical applications for plants of all kinds. The one thing he can't bring to mind is the faces of his parents.
What kind of people were they? No matter how hard he tries, he cannot remember.
His memory starts after his life with the wolves had already begun. The wolves took him in as part of their "Lupical" — a word he was taught by someone else, which means family.
Friendship Lv. 3
Tiny singing things are flying in the sky.
The clouds are long and fluffy, like a wolf's tail.
Razor's world is a simple one.
On a sunny day, you run around hunting or try and beat your prey to the ripe fruits, on a rainy day, you hide out in a hollow tree and fall asleep hugging a furry lupine friend, with some grass and leaves for a pillow.
Eat as much as you can and drink plenty of water. Cool off in the lake when you're hot, and go find some juicy berries when you're thirsty.
Razor looks at his body and then at the bodies of his kin.
He knows he is different from them.
But there's nothing wrong with that, as far as Razor is concerned.
Friendship Lv. 4
One day, a tall man came to the mountains and disrupted Razor's peaceful life.
Razor did not know who the man was, only that he was a human. Seeing the confused look on Razor's face, the man gave him a friendly smile.
"Hey buddy! Why don't you come back down to Mondstadt with me?"
The man offered his hand to Razor as he spoke.
But neither Razor nor the wolves understood the gesture. Feeling protective, the wolves placed themselves between Razor and the man to keep him away.
Razor ducked down beneath the wolves' furry tails. He looked at his body, and then peered out through the gaps in the wolf fur to get a look at the man's.
Razor knew he wasn't the most intelligent of beings, and was at a loss to answer the question that has been in his mind ever since that day.
"Am I a human, or a wolf?"
Friendship Lv. 5
It was that man who gave Razor his name.
The simple Wolf Boy could not understand the intricacies of human language, but he knew from the look on the man's face when he produced this sound that the man was giving him a name.
"Rae-zer."
The shadows cast by the trees of Wolvendom grew short, and then grew long again.
The man taught Razor how to swing a sword. Unwieldy though this steel claw may be, thought Razor, it was at least sharp enough to cut through tree branches.
"Now you can protect your friends."
"Fr-ren-dzz..."
Razor imitated the sounds the man made, without understanding what they meant.
Similarly, he did not understand why the names of things were all that important in the first place. After all, he never learned the name of that man before he left.
Friendship Lv. 6
"Master, what is... 'friends'?"
Razor once asked of his new mentor, working at the limits of his vocabulary.
His purple-clothed mentor seemed to know it all, from how to make hash browns from potatoes in the ground, to the name of the brightest star in the summer night sky.
However, Lisa simply smiled and yawned without answering him.
Razor thought about it when the wind blew, when the rain fell — even when Wolfhook berries got stuck in his fur. He just couldn't figure it out.
Until one day, Razor met a bright-red, 'burny' girl.
They stood in the wind together, got soaked in the rain together — she even rolled around in Wolfhook bushes with him.
Her name was Klee. When Razor played with her, it was like being a wolf pup again.
"Friends... is... Lupical."
Razor may not understand the complexity of human relationships, but he has an honest, primal loyalty to him.
"So... protect friends... Lupical... with life."
The wolf pack howls in the distance, summoning him home.
Razor still does not know if he is a human or a wolf.
But he is happy either way.
Friendship Lv. 4
In a box so crudely made that one has to be extra careful when opening it lies Razor's greatest treasures.
The broken-off hilt of a greatsword, a children's storybook called The Wolf and the Windwheel Aster, and a dry, withered four-leaf clover.
Though he understands neither the intricacies of human relations nor the ways of the world, Razor knows that these are gifts from the ones known as 'friends' — and that is what makes them his most treasured possessions of all.
Friendship Lv. 6
The story of how Razor got his Vision is one of the few memories that he wishes he could forget.
One day, during a lightning storm, an Abyss Mage ambushed Razor from behind and dragged him away. The wolf pack ran to his aid and put up a fearless fight, but every last one of them was defeated by the Abyss Mage.
As he looked on helplessly at his dear companions being harmed, Razor let out an almighty roar like that of a cornered animal.
"Lupical!"
Fueled by his almighty fury, a lightning-like power grew inside, and suddenly an overload of elemental energy was flowing within him.
He was ready to protect. He was ready to avenge.
He threw off his shackles and raised his weapon.
The Abyss Mage was overwhelmed and defeated by a wild, unfettered frenzy of Electro energy, but this time it was too late to save Razor's wolven companions.
...
Though he had obtained a Vision, Razor was still unable to manipulate Electro energy with finesse. One day many moons later, when he met the Witch of Purple Rose, Lisa, he began to study human knowledge.
"Friends, hurt... Never again! I will... protect them."
With each day, Razor grew more skilled in the use of his Vision. He made a silent promise to himself: "I will become stronger. I will become the strongest of them all."
Because the day may come when his Lupical faces another threat, and this time, he will protect them.
