WANDERER

Personality
After erasing his Fatui ties from Irminsul, the Wanderer is shown to be amiable and yet living an unsatisfactory life as he lacked a human heart and name. The lack of a human heart caused him to long for a purpose he lacked and thus willingly accepted his memories back to reclaim his sins to be himself once more.
Following the restoration of his memories, the Wanderer still retained all of his traits as Scaramouche, simply stating what he sees in front of him. He is not fond of most of his former co-workers, especially Dottore as a result of his meddling with his life and his lies. Despite Nahida's attempts to help him understand human society, the Wanderer appears to make little effort in doing so, claiming that he doesn't want more reasons to be indebted to her.
The Wanderer enjoys extremely bitter tastes. He despises sweets.
Appearance
The Wanderer uses the medium male model. He has indigo eyes with red eyeliner, fair skin, and dark indigo hair with a short hime cut and an undercut.
Official Introduction
Know one heart, know all hearts
On a fateful night, a figure arrived at a place that had once been called Tatarasuna. There should no longer have been residents there, but as if destiny had decreed it, a farmer had come there, picking Naku Weed to make a living. Thus it was under the moonlight that he saw a phantom figure standing on the edge of the cliff.
This person wore a wide hat that concealed their face entirely. However, the farmer could hear breathing through the pitter-patter of the rain.
A moment later, the figure spoke. "This is how humans should breathe."
The farmer was terrified that he might had encountered some spirit, and hurriedly hid behind a rock. The figure spoke again. "What are you afraid of? Would a passerby such as I hurt you? I am merely here to tend to the grave of a friend."
Silence filled the air once more. The farmer peeked out from behind the rock, and saw that the figure had vanished. A note drifted to the ground and was instantly soaked by the rain. Three questions had been written on that piece of paper, along with answers that were not yet fully written—
If humans have a heart, why do they not fear the hearts of others?
Due to their inferior nature.
How should one treat others, knowing full well their inferiority?
...
How can one be a human being without a heart?
One without a heart is hardly human.
Chills ran down the farmer's spine as he finished reading the note. Tatarasuna had been deserted for many years, and it had been a long time since anyone came here to pay their respects. And even if there were, why would they appear on such a night?
Character Stories
He needs not introduce himself, for ordinary folk will never get to know him.
Nor will he need to immerse himself in the sea of humanity, for he has long forsaken any worthless emotion.
Several times now he has risen and fallen, and now he lives only for himself.
"Wanderer" is how he believes he might be best described — he has no home, no kin, and no destination.
Like the breeze, he lives in this world, and he walks its length and breadth.
Friendship Lv. 2  •  Inversion of Genesis
Many years ago, the Wanderer was not called by that title. Indeed, he has had many, all of which corresponded to a special status he possessed at that time. Today, many of these past affairs have been forgotten.
The puppet, the eccentric Kabukimono, the 6th seat of the Fatui Harbingers, The Balladeer...
Each of these was a thread of fate tying the puppet's joints down.
Any recollection must begin several hundred years ago, when the puppet that shed tears upon being born would not be given a name, but was instead only given a small golden feather as proof of his personage.
He would be laid to rest within the Shakkei Pavilion, staring blankly at the beauteous scenery within. The flaming maple leaves, the exquisite window lattices... Within that lovely prison, he lost all perception.
It was by accident that a kind-hearted samurai named Katsuragi would enter the pavilion and rescue him. It was Katsuragi who brought him to live in Tatarasuna and meet the people who lived there.
Then, the puppet was as naive as a newborn, filled with goodwill and gratitude towards humans. Katsuragi, upon seeing the golden pinion on his person, knew that this puppet must not have been of ordinary stock, yet have his reasons not to mention his place of origin. Thus, he omitted all mention of Shakkei Pavilion, instead claiming falsely that he had found the young man while patroling Nazuchi Beach, and he bade the puppet play along so as to not expose the lie.
Busy, bustling Tatarasuna was a place of many happy memories for the puppet. There, he was briefly human. There, he was briefly normal.
Katsuragi, Mikoshi Nagamasa, Niwa, Miyazaki, and many other now-forgotten people from Tatarasuna would teach him to read and write, to start fires and make meals, to forge — yes, they accepted him as their friend.
They even asked him: "Don't you want a name? Or are you going to let everyone out there call you the Kabukimono?"
Yet he had no dislike for this name.
"Kabukimono" referred mostly to those who wore vibrant colors and behaved in a peculiar manner. Yes, they made him different, but such was proof of his humanity — proof that he belonged in Tatarasuna.
Pity, then, that though he loved this name so, he would be forced to forsake it. For when he no longer wished to become human, it lost its meaning.
He would depart, and after arriving in the distant north, would join the wild banquet of the Harbingers, working to win the sixth seat among them.
It was the Tsaritsa who would grant him his new title — "The Balladeer." Strength, power, and the desire for conflict — these he already possessed.
The chess pieces raised tides of madness amidst battle, and the slaughterers on the stage upended order.
In that moment, he was sure that The Balladeer was his true name.
Friendship Lv. 3  •  Inversion of Genesis
In the early days when Tatarasuna was still a prosperous place, the Wanderer walked amongst its people, going by the name "Kabukimono."
And the thing that ended his peaceful life was not all that important in the grand scale of Inazuma's history.
Change came to the place in the form of the Akame Clan and a mechanic from Fontaine named Escher. The two cooperated very closely to further improve forging quality, and in the process, Akame introduced Escher to Niwa, who was also from the three Isshin traditions.
Escher's arrival caused quite the stir for a time, for it was through his revolutionary new techniques that they were able to process Crystal Marrow in such a way that their forging efficacy and production were both increased.
But as time passed, anomalies emerged within the great central furnace in Tatarasuna. Black gas gathered within the furnace, and it would gradually affect the bodies of the craftspeople there. Forging and smelting were the foundations of life in Tatarasuna, but now they had become death itself.
And as the toll mounted, the great furnace further went out of control. None could get close to its core, and even stopping it became nigh impossible.
As the highest authority at Tatarasuna, Niwa was forced to enact an information blackout while sending people to Inazuma City to beg aid from Tenshukaku.
For some reason, however, those who took to the sea in ships never returned. Horror began seeping into the hearts of Tatarasuna's people.
The Kabukimono knew that Niwa needed the Raiden Shogun's aid, but did not know that this was the very year when she had successfully built the perfect puppet using parts of herself as material, thus handing over management of the nation to the Guardian of Eternity. He thus boarded a small boat and braved storm and rain to arrive at Tenshukaku, seeking an audience with the Shogun.
But she now dwelled in the Plane of Euthymia, and he was repeatedly refused. In desperation, he displayed the golden feather on his person and asked to see Yae Miko instead.
At this time, Miko was busy assisting the Guardian, and though she rushed down as soon as she heard this news, she could only meet the distressed Kabukimono briefly. Yet he had no ears for her promises to send people to their aid immediately, and returned in despair, convinced that the Shogunate had forsaken Tatarasuna.
Still, the dispatch was sent, the people were mobilized, and they crossed by sea. Yet they arrived to no great disaster. Indeed, most people knew nothing of what had happened. It was the mechanic, Escher, who explained that Niwa had fled with his family for fear of punishment for his malfeasance, and that the Kabukimono had gone into the core zone in his place, shutting the furnace down.
Receiving word that the Kabukimono had been friends with the fleeing Niwa, Yae guessed at the heaviness in his heart and did not wish to further disturb him, merely sending someone to return the feather to him.
Later still, he would disappear without a trace from Tatarasuna. But as people reminisced, they could never forget the celebratory dance he had performed together with them on the day that Mikoshi Nagamasa successfully forged his great blade.
His steps fluttered lightly like a feather in the wind then, and they could not have known that he, like a feather, would depart from them and journey to places unknown.
Friendship Lv. 4  •  Inversion of Genesis
After leaving Tatarasuna, the Kabukimono met a young child in a small house by the seaside somewhere in Inazuma.
The young boy was weak and sickly, and he lived in a rickety old place into which the rain leaked. Seeing his constantly mud-caked face through the gaps in the decrepit wooden door, the Kabukimono felt something twist in his heart, as if some ancient feeling was being re-awakened. And so, he stayed within that wooden house to care for that sick boy, bringing him melons, fruits, and water to drink, helping him to wipe the filth from his face.
Many days passed, and the child's parents did not return. It was only later that the Kabukimono learned that the parents were also workers from Tatarasuna, and they might have lived normal and happy lives, if not for husband and wife contracting some strange illness during their work, often coughing up blood as a result. That they had not returned indicated that they may have passed without any fanfare in some place out there.
The child's name was unimportant, for he had another identity: he was the Kabukimono's friend, and family besides. They talked about how they had been born and promised to continue to live together in that ramshackle hut. As proof of their friendship, the Kabukimono took the boy to Shakkei Pavilion to see the place where he had once lived.
The flaming maple leaves, the ancient latticed windows... All was as it had once been.
At that time, he believed that he would never return here... but he did not realize that the child could die in only one night. One night, barely enough time for the Kabukimono to go out and find some food or swipe some furniture that others no longer had any use for.
Though he had already witnessed much change, he never knew that another person's passing was something that could occur in such a brief moment, or that this moment could grant him nothing but pain.
After the shock, he felt incomparable fury. He was alone. Again. Was he not once more abandoned?
Again! Again! Again!
The boy's small body on the ground was curled up like a jumble of flower petals, a corner of it stained red with blood — red like the maple leaves... red like a blazing fire.
That night, a great flaming glow lit the seaside. The Kabukimono burned the wooden house, and finding himself an old straw hat from within it, left to begin his long journey.
He wandered everywhere, not knowing where to go, and though he would meet many more people along the way, he would never again regard any of them as his companions.
Friendship Lv. 5  •  Inversion of Genesis
The sixth of Snezhnaya's Fatui Harbingers is known as The Balladeer.
And yet this name was not his to own from the start. Indeed, they were yet separated by over a hundred years.
After leaving Inazuma, he forsook the name Kabukimono, reverting to his nameless state, and did not even consider taking another until The Jester found him.
In the end, such titles as "puppet" or "Kabukimono" were all given to him by mortals. And since he would no longer have them as companions, there was no point in using the names they gave him.
But The Jester proved most persuasive, and the puppet was intrigued by the frenzied banquet he spoke of, and so accompanied the man to Snezhnaya to serve in the Fatui.
A stranger named The Doctor would welcome him warmly in this frigid northern land, inviting the Wanderer to be the key reference material in his experiments — his grand research project.
Puppet-making techniques had their roots in Khaenri'ah, and his nature as a creation of the Electro Archon made him all the more special. The Doctor was fascinated by this field of study, and, using the Wanderer as a foundational blueprint, would perform research and experiments for several decades before finally attaining the techniques that would go on to form the basis for his Segments.
In return, The Doctor would unlock the seal on his body, causing his abilities to greatly increase, to the point where he was a match for the lower-ranked Harbingers.
But even so, he did not choose another name. His colleagues called him the "puppet," and so he saw himself also — a puppet, unafraid of death and inexhaustible.
On the Tsaritsa's orders, he would lead a company to explore the Abyss, and there he spent much time. More than once he was wounded, then repaired by The Doctor, and thus he grew stronger, surviving to be wounded again by ever mightier foes.
Much later, he would bring the results of his exploration back to Snezhnaya, gaining the sixth seat in the process. His orders were also changed. Instead of exploring the Abyss, he was now to constantly be on standby, assisting the clandestine activities of the Fatui across the world.
And it was only then that he felt that that new name, "The Balladeer," fit him.
Friendship Lv. 6  •  Inversion of Genesis
The many things that happened after that might even be called soul-stirring, but for the fact that few now remember them.
Only those who witnessed those events would keep them as legends in their hearts, and so they continue to quietly exist, as ancient songs lost to the world.
Within Irminsul, The Balladeer came into contact with the "truth" that Lesser Lord Kusanali had placed within the flow of information. This secret had been hidden within one of The Doctor's many hearts, and just as she claimed, this truth in first person contained all his remaining honesty.
And thus did The Balladeer come to know of past truths: Niwa, who had taught him how to live like an ordinary human and treated him like one, had not fled Tatarasuna to escape punishment as Escher had claimed. In fact, the true culprit had been Escher — no, The Doctor — all along. And as for the heart that had been placed within The Balladeer, it had been cut, still warm, from Niwa's breast.
This death had been nicely packaged within an incident at the forge, and such was Escher's silvered tongue that he all too quickly convinced everyone that this was due to the failings of the local overseer.
As the next person in charge, Mikoshi Nagamasa would have faced capital punishment if not for the intervention of his loyal samurai retainer, Katsuragi, who willingly took the burden of wrongdoing upon himself.
The tragedy that followed need not be elaborated upon. Nagamasa, unwilling as he was, had to wash the stain from the Mikoshi name, and could not allow himself to die here.
And so he brought forth his beloved blade, the Daitatara Nagamasa, and struck Katsuragi down in a single blow, the blade cutting so deep that it nearly split the slain man in twain...
...And had they not all believed in their god?
Why then, did they have to face such a calamity?
If the enigmatic puppet they called the Kabukimono had never existed, would Escher have done the same thing there?
Even if the chance were infinitesimal, could the tragedy of Tatarasuna have been salvaged?
Anyone anywhere else in this world would be able to do nothing about this, but not The Balladeer. He knew that he alone could attempt this one thing, here and now.
He believed himself bold, for he feared not death. Death was but a tiny threat to a puppet, and only humans with hearts knew horror.
He also knew himself to be craven, and for that he had remorse. If he had been then more like he was at present... if he had learned to be less trusting... Would those he had viewed as friends have met such a ruinous end?
Traitor, hero, god, discarded detritus — all these identities would cease to matter to one who leaped into the flux.
The information flow was a place of incomparable silence, and yet his blood roiled in his ears, and his mind roared.
Embrace oblivion!
The puppet was a discarded milksop, the Kabukimono unaccomplished and sheltered, and Scaramouche was a schemer — one who eventually went against divine decree, seeking to go against the tides of the world.
But what of it?
Once upon a time, these inhuman hands had shut a great blazing furnace without caring if his ten fingers were burned to a crisp.
Now, these hands grasped at the tiniest possibility, twisting the truth to fulfill his wish.
Yes, embrace it, embrace it with this form that shall be obliterated!
To ruin with this life, as worthless as flowers and feathers and the dawn dew!
Farewell, world! The future shall be what it will. Farewell nonetheless!
Friendship Lv. 4  •  Inversion of Genesis
Having decided to stop by Sumeru, the Wanderer took some time off to visit Treasures Street and learn how to make toys from some of the merchants there.
In a corner of the bustling street, a kind-hearted old fellow with hair as white as snow invited him to sit by his side, teaching him how to use cloth and thread to sew that which he wanted to make step by step.
The Wanderer spent much time practicing, doing this thing that did not augur with his personality. Strange, perhaps, but he did not hate it.
He had done such things with great patience in times past, after all, learning things such as holding cutlery, wearing clothes, combing his hair...
Yes, he had learned to be a "human" from the little things up.
A few days later, his great work was complete — a little man with white clothes and black hair, a waistband tied using a butterfly knot, and a clear, round tear at the corner of his eye.
Indeed, back then, there was a young fellow who had made this doll in imitation of the Wanderer's past appearance. Shame, then, that he had burned both the doll and his old home to ashes when he left Inazuma.
Many years later, he would make one as well, and oh, how familiar that felt!
Small and soft as it was, it was akin to a defenseless babe. It took up little space in his sleeves, and if he kept it in his hat, it felt like having a travel companion.
"From today, you shall wander together with me."
He said softly, placing it in his pocket.
Friendship Lv. 6  •  Inversion of Genesis
In that instant, the Wanderer could hear the wind's voice. He knew not whence it had come, only that it changed direction as if to greet him.
On it were scents old and nostalgic — the iron hammer, metals, the furnace, the dust of the earth...
Distant dreams, a prosperous past... Incredible though it might seem, even he once led such a simple life.
In that instant, he beheld his own reflections, each one vivid, each one real, each one him.
Cowering in fear, pathetic in his agony, arrogant yet laughable... And they all coalesced into one body.
To accept the past is to acknowledge its failings, to recognize that one is naught but a coward who has achieved nothing — who has nothing.
But only by doing so could he break free of his shackles and become, once again, that tragic person.
In that moment, he knew this: that the appearances of peace and beauty were but an illusion. The real him had never died, no, it lived on deep within his heart. As long as he still had a choice, he would tread the same course no matter how many times he did this over.
As he moved like lightning itself, a blazing light came between him and the Everlasting Lord of Arcane Wisdom, blocking its attack. His will and his choice had gained him the eye of the gods.
The Vision descended, and caught between bright light and darkness, the glittering ornament seemed almost like an eye on a smiling face, questioning him from afar: Can you, who have desires of such intensity, still be considered a being without a heart?
