YAOYAO

Personality
Yaoyao tries her best to act as a proper young adult to others including her seniors, such as making sure that they have a healthy diet and is especially fond of radishes. She is very curious about the outside world, having originally lived a life of seclusion with her parents around Qingce Village until she was taken in by Madame Ping. Similarly to Klee's Dodoco, Yaoyao is very attached to Yuegui, who Cloud Retainer made for her.
Appearance
Yaoyao uses the short female model. She has fair skin, pale dark red eyes that are golden at the bottom, and golden-brown hair.
Official Introduction
Cherubic grace blessed by the adepti
In the eyes of the people of Liyue Harbor, Madame Ping always brings the smiley Yaoyao along with her, and the two behave like a loving grandparent with her grandchild.
In reality, they are not biologically related. Yaoyao is the disciple of Madame Ping, also known as Streetward Rambler.
Although she is the youngest disciple of Streetward Rambler, she takes care of her other seniors like an elder sister.
It is no wonder that Xiangling often finds herself thinking, "Why does it feel like Yaoyao is taking care of me like I'm a child... Am I not the older one here?"
Even before becoming an adeptus's disciple, Yaoyao was always a warmhearted and considerate child. Perhaps it is for this very reason that the adepti are all very fond of her.
Yuegui, who never leaves her side, is an adepti treasure, crafted by Cloud Retainer herself. Yuegui protects Yaoyao whenever she encounters danger. It is just another testimony of the affection that the adepti have for her.
Yaoyao is talented and driven, the kind of student teachers dream of. Although she has had some embarrassing moments due to her not fully grasping the knowledge learned, this young child will no doubt blossom into a cultured and knowledgeable lady.
Madame Ping is proud to have a disciple like her by her side.
Character Stories
The adepti faithfully adhere to the contract that they have with Rex Lapis, and have thus defended Liyue for millennia.
When danger arises in Liyue, the adepti are sure to come forth, and they do show up from time to time when the land is at peace.
Sometimes, they do so to punish those who harbor evil in their hearts, and sometimes they intervene to save the imprisoned. And if they happen to meet someone with a destiny intertwined with that of the adepti way, they will take them as disciples and teach them their arts.
Amongst the adepti, Streetward Rambler is among those who interact more with mortals.
She has a great many disciples, the youngest of whom is named Yaoyao.
Yaoyao is both talented and inquisitive, and while she is still very young, thus limiting her ability to fully take in what she has been taught and causing no small amount of innocuous mistakes in the process, she will in time become a most knowledgeable girl.
She also possesses a gentle and caring nature, and she treats people with earnestness and generosity. Not only does her master favor her, but her senior disciple and other elders in her life, too, very much dote on her.
Most will never have the fortune to enter the adepti abodes in Jueyun Karst, but Yaoyao comes and goes between them both freely and often. Indeed, the love she receives from the adepti at her young age is quite an enviable matter.
Friendship Lv. 2
As the people of Liyue Harbor see it, Madame Ping is often found with Yaoyao by her side, the two seeming the very image of a loving grandmother and granddaughter.
In truth, however, there is no blood relation between them, and Yaoyao is Madame Ping's — or should we say Streetward Rambler's — disciple.
When Yaoyao first became the adeptus' disciple, she was still too young to have learned to read and write, and so her master began by teaching her the etiquette of tomes of poetry on a daily basis.
As she grew, Streetward Rambler would gradually add the rites of the adepti, their methods of self-cultivation, and her own spear arts into Yaoyao's curriculum.
The voluminous nature of such teachings makes committing them to memory a challenge for Yaoyao, but her master does not overly fret about such things, for it is apparent to her that Yaoyao has indeed listened to those lessons.
While her spear's shaft is heavy and ill-aligned to a child's easy wielding, Yaoyao practices every day nonetheless.
And while books of poetry might be hard to memorize, she reads them daily nonetheless, to the point where she can expound on the relationship between full stomachs and righteousness in her sleep.
Having initially resolved to be a sterner taskmistress, Streetward Rambler was relieved to see Yaoyao's earnest attitude, and thus relaxed her requirements a little.
That Yaoyao genuinely treated her as her grandmother warmed the cockles of her heart greatly as well.
Indeed, despite being half the height of an adult, Yaoyao tended to Streetward Rambler's meals and fretted over her health when the hotter parts of the year give way to the cold, as if forgetting that headaches and fevers were not common problems for the adepti.
Indeed, Streetward Rambler came to feel as if she really had been blessed with a granddaughter, and from then on, she never said a strict word to the child ever again.
While she had not begun this relationship with any intention apart from taking a disciple, she now finds herself and Yaoyao inseparable. Which is alright, she supposes. Let the little one stay by her side for some time yet — she still has much to teach, after all.
Friendship Lv. 3
This story begins well before Yaoyao was even born. Her parents, preferring life out in the mountain wilds, chose to move away from Liyue Harbor and search for a quiet place near Qingce Village to live, building their own abode and living life in relative seclusion.
There they lived in solitude by the mountains and waters, and their backyard had a small field in which they grew melons, fruits, and vegetables.
The closest settlement to them was Qingce Village, and when they lacked for any daily necessities, they would bring the fruits of their field to the village and trade for what they required.
This was the home to which Yaoyao was born.
Thus did she gain the birds, beasts, and fish for companions while she was still a babbling babe, and thus did she take her first tottering steps in the radish field behind her house.
Her gentle, pure soul was first cultivated in this quiet and cozy garden.
Later, she would catch the eye of an adeptus and be taken in as her disciple.
At first, her parents were not entirely willing to let their daughter live long-term in Liyue Harbor with said adeptus, for they feared that their innocent daughter, having long been used to life in the mountains, would find herself led astray by the bright lights of the big city.
But Streetward Rambler's counsel ultimately brought them round:
"Perhaps solitude in the mountains shall indeed keep one from mortal stain, but such lonesomeness may not be what Yaoyao desires for her future. Let her have the chance to see the myriad faces of the world for herself."
Only then did her parents give her into the care of the adeptus, and time has only demonstrated the wisdom of that choice.
In Liyue Harbor, Yaoyao would become a much more outgoing person with the help of her master and a host of good friends. But when the festive season comes along, she does take leave of her master to see her parents at home.
Indeed, if one desired a good teacher for one's child, could there be a more ideal pick than an adeptus?
Friendship Lv. 4
Madame Ping's old acquaintances will sometimes drop by to visit her, and during such times, Yaoyao will accompany her master and her master's guests in roaming the city.
Having come from afar, these guests will often not only visit the stores and food stands, but also attend storytelling sessions or Liyue opera performances at Heyu Tea House.
Of course, being the large city that it is, Liyue Harbor has no lack of people who enjoy spending some downtime at the teahouse, including many outlanders who appreciate the cultures of other nations.
Once, three outlanders, first-time visitors to Liyue Harbor, sat at the table beside that of Yaoyao and company. Having heard an opera about the adepti of Liyue, they began to discuss that very topic over tea and snacks.
Unable to get a word in lengthwise in the conversation between her master and her guest, Yaoyao succumbed to boredom, listening in on the nearby chat while eating some treats.
The lady from Inazuma seemed to think that Liyue's adepti were not much different from the Guuji of the Grand Narukami Shrine, having charge over matters divine and literary alike.
The visitor from Fontaine was of an obdurate view that the adepti were in the employ of the state apparatus. Had he met Ganyu, the Qixing's secretary before? Or did that nation simply have a similar arrangement?
The adventurer from Mondstadt was for his part very taken with the legends of the adepti, for he had only heard the bards sing songs of the gods, but had never himself met one or any of their familiars.
Unable to resist, he asked the tea master if they had ever spoken to an adeptus, only to be disappointed by the reply:
"It is but a story, for we mortals do not daily dwell in Jueyun Karst, and few are the opportunities to meet the adepti."
Yaoyao, finding this statement to be incorrect, could not help but rebut thusly: "That's not true. The adepti are among us. I mean, Uncle Moon Carver just said that the story was very interesting."
For some reason she could not fathom, Madame Ping's guest stopped speaking altogether, and Madame Ping laughed, saying a few words to the tea master to change the topic.
Yaoyao, however, did not understand: Why did people find the adepti very distant from their daily lives? The adepti were amongst them — they just didn't readily reveal themselves, that's all.
Friendship Lv. 5
Not all people can be accepted and taken as disciples by the adepti — only those whose destinies are entwined with these blessed beings may become privy to their arts and ways.
Yaoyao once asked her master: "Why do you say that our destinies are entwined? What does that mean?"
"It means that you and I have things in common that led to our meeting."
This answer, of course, was akin to some overarching axiom in a book, crushing much meaning into very few words, and has by no means been easy for Yaoyao to wrap her head around.
Yaoyao remembers that she had been playing in the mountains as usual when she first met her master.
At that time, she was still living with her parents, and when she went out to play, she would speak to the stones and the clouds about her feelings. In her eyes, the flowers, birds, fish, insects, and the mountains, rocks, and rivers were all her precious playmates.
That day, however, the stones and the clouds replied when she spoke, and thus overjoyed, she chatted with them throughout the entire day.
Then the adeptus recalled her mystical arts, and the illusory stones and clouds dissipated, revealing Streetward Rambler to Yaoyao in her true form — and yet, Yaoyao was not startled.
It is the adepti way to protect the world and the people who live in it, and the adepti of Liyue do not merely defend humanity, but cherish also the things of nature. All such things are bound within their own natural cycles, and so long as one acts in concert with these cycles, all things will grow in their time and will not encroach upon one another.
Yaoyao's treasuring of her playmates bore similarity indeed to the adepti and their care for all things, and it was this that drew Streetward Rambler's interest.
Shame, then, that Yaoyao could not for the life of her comprehend the complexities of her master's reply, and thus did she lay the question aside for the time being.
Friendship Lv. 6
After following her master to live in Liyue Harbor, Yaoyao has packed her daily schedule to the very gills. Her mornings are for readings and lessons, afternoons are for spear training, and afterward, it is time for single-minded play!
Play, her master said, is not to be underestimated, and for a child like Yaoyao, learning and play are both right and proper things to do.
It has been during play time that she has encountered all manner of people, among them the captain of the Crux Fleet, the doctor at Bubu Pharmacy, and his little herb-gathering assistant. As such, she has been steadily gaining a larger pool of people to ask about anything she may encounter that she might not immediately understand.
She also loves to explore the harbor area: Granny Shan's toy stall, the establishment — that is to say, Wanmin Restaurant — run by her senior disciple's family, the dockyards... If it may be explored, she would love to explore it.
As such, she has seen many things that books cannot tell of, such as the sails of embarking ships rippling in the wind, or the full map of Liyue that may be found in Yujing Terrace — each one of these helps her perceive the vastness of the world around her.
Sometimes, her idea of play will take her alongside her master to visit the Jueyun adepti. There she has heard many an ancient tale, and there she has learned that the truth of the past is far more perilous than any tomes may tell.
Each day, she learns a little something more, and each day, things change all around her — nothing remains quite the same as it once was in life.
This is her favorite thing about Liyue Harbor.
Life here is like a long river, constantly moving forward at a great pace.
By contrast, the days she spent with her parents are like a peaceful, quiet stream. The stream is wonderful, of course, and its gentle tread and slow rhythm has given her a great many warm memories.
The great river is also good. She will take up its unceasing drive and work hard to become an adult who both her master and parents can be proud of.
And so wishing, she grows expectant, wishing to grow up.
Friendship Lv. 4
Streetward Rambler has acquaintances all across Liyue, and even early on, she had paid many of them a visit, saying that her newest disciple's training was not quite complete yet, and asking them to take care of the young girl should they encounter her.
Her original intention was simply to introduce her student and ask that they help teach Yaoyao further, that her eventual learning might increase.
Yaoyao's clever and caring manner, however, proved more lovable than Streetward Rambler had expected, and Cloud Retainer would take the request to heart.
Before either master or pupil had realized it, Cloud Retainer had already completed the creation of a wondrous machine rabbit.
"Well then, Yaoyao, one purposes to give this to you. Should you encounter any danger, call upon it, and it shall answer."
Yaoyao was very taken with this cute rabbit, naming it Yuegui and taking it everywhere with her.
Having given this gift, Cloud Retainer would seek out the little girl's master to say, and not without pride, that:
"One should inform you first that this device has another function. Should you ever be unable to find Yaoyao, you need only call out, 'Yuegui!', and her location shall be made known to you."
"Nonetheless, one counsels you not to overuse this feature, for when the child grows older, she will desire her own privacy, and may yet take umbrage to your constant calling upon her. Now, take one's loose relationship with one's pupil Shenhe for example..."
"Oh, not to worry. I understand, Cloud Retainer."
"And it is good that you do. In any case, Yuegui shall alert us if anyone should try to do her ill without our knowledge — any such churls shall soon need all the luck they can get."
Friendship Lv. 6
"Why did I receive a Vision?"
This question troubled Yaoyao quite a bit in the days that directly followed her receiving one.
Did the gods want to reward her for the good deeds she had done? Or was this because she had been a good and respectful pupil?
Speaking of which, her senior Xiangling and Aunty Cloud Retainer's student Shenhe both had Visions as well. So, was this because the gods recognized the adepti, and so they would, as a matter of course, also extend this acknowledgment to an adeptus' students?
But on further consideration, none of these guesses really made much sense.
It was with a sigh that Yaoyao found herself sitting on the slopes behind Liyue Harbor, hugging a dog that had followed her up the incline.
This was hardly the first thing she had found incomprehensible since leaving her parents' side, and she had, by and large, decided that her doubts were unavoidable, and could wait till she got older, for surely they might clear up by then!
But since she now had a Vision, an item that represented divine acknowledgment, she could not betray such hopes.
As a disciple of her master, she would follow her example and protect the people. This meant that she would not only have to care for her master and senior disciple, but also extend care to her family and friends, and extend universal love to all people. Ah, she still had such a long way to go. Nothing for it, then — she'd hang on for a bit longer during spear practice tomorrow, and write one extra page into her calligraphy copybook too.
